doc/install.rst, before:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :

.. _bob.devtools.install:


==============
 Installation
==============

You can install this package via conda_, simply pointing to our stable or beta
channels:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ conda create -n bdt -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda bob.devtools
   # or, for beta releases:
   $ conda create -n bdt -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda/label/beta -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda bob.devtools

If you use one of our supported Python versions on your base environment, you
may also install ``bdt`` on it:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ conda install -n base -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda bob.devtools
   # or, for beta releases:
   $ conda install -n base -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda/label/beta -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda bob.devtools

We provide packages for both 64-bit Linux and MacOS, for Python 3.6+.  Once
installed, you can use these tools within the created environment like this:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ conda activate base  #or bdt, depending where you installed it
   (bdt) $ bdt --help


.. _bob.devtools.install.setup:

Setup
=====

Some of the commands in the ``bdt`` command-line application require access to
your gitlab private token, which you can pass at every iteration, or setup at
your ``~/.python-gitlab.cfg``.  Please note that in case you don't set it up,
it will request for your API token on-the-fly, what can be cumbersome and
repeatitive.  Your ``~/.python-gitlab.cfg`` should roughly look like this
(there must be an "idiap" section on it, at least):

.. code-block:: ini

   [global]
   default = idiap
   ssl_verify = true
   timeout = 15

   [idiap]
   url = https://gitlab.idiap.ch
   private_token = <obtain token at your settings page in gitlab>
   api_version = 4

We recommend you set ``chmod 600`` to this file to avoid prying eyes to read
out your personal token. Once you have your token set up, communication should
work transparently between the built-in gitlab client and the server.

If you would like to use the WebDAV interface to our web service for manually
uploading contents, you may also setup the address, username and password for
that server inside the file ``~/.bdtrc``.  Here is a skeleton:

.. code-block:: ini


   [webdav]
   server = http://example.com
   username = username
   password = password

You may obtain these parameters from our internal page explaining the `WebDAV
configuration`_.  For security reasons, you should also set ``chmod 600`` to
this file.

To increment your development environments created with ``bdt create`` using
pip-installable packages, create a section named ``create`` in the file
``~/.bdtrc`` with the following contents, e.g.:

.. code-block:: ini

   [create]
   pip_extras = ipdb
                bob.buildout
                mr.developer

Then, by default, ``bdt create`` will automatically pip install ``ipdb`` and
``mr.developer`` at environment creation time.  You may reset this list to your
liking.

.. include:: links.rst

Commit message:

Add a series of bdt dev commands to help in local development Fixes #86

doc/install.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :

.. _bob.devtools.install:


==============
 Installation
==============

You can install this package via conda_, simply pointing to our stable or beta
channels:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ conda create -n bdt -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda bob.devtools
   # or, for beta releases:
   $ conda create -n bdt -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda/label/beta -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda bob.devtools

If you use one of our supported Python versions on your base environment, you
may also install ``bdt`` on it (recommended):

.. code-block:: sh

   $ conda install -n base -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda bob.devtools
   # or, for beta releases:
   $ conda install -n base -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda/label/beta -c https://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/conda bob.devtools

We provide packages for both 64-bit Linux and MacOS, for Python 3.6+.  Once
installed, you can use these tools within the created environment like this:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ ln -s $(which bdt) ~/.local/bin
   # make sure ~/.local/bin is in your $PATH
   $ export PATH=$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH
   # use bdt any time now no matter which conda env is activated
   $ bdt --help


.. _bob.devtools.install.setup:

Setup
=====

Some of the commands in the ``bdt`` command-line application require access to
your gitlab private token, which you can pass at every iteration, or setup at
your ``~/.python-gitlab.cfg``.  Please note that in case you don't set it up,
it will request for your API token on-the-fly, what can be cumbersome and
repeatitive.  Your ``~/.python-gitlab.cfg`` should roughly look like this
(there must be an "idiap" section on it, at least):

.. code-block:: ini

   [global]
   default = idiap
   ssl_verify = true
   timeout = 15

   [idiap]
   url = https://gitlab.idiap.ch
   private_token = <obtain token at your settings page in gitlab>
   api_version = 4

We recommend you set ``chmod 600`` to this file to avoid prying eyes to read
out your personal token. Once you have your token set up, communication should
work transparently between the built-in gitlab client and the server.

If you would like to use the WebDAV interface to our web service for manually
uploading contents, you may also setup the address, username and password for
that server inside the file ``~/.bdtrc``.  Here is a skeleton:

.. code-block:: ini


   [webdav]
   server = http://example.com
   username = username
   password = password

You may obtain these parameters from our internal page explaining the `WebDAV
configuration`_.  For security reasons, you should also set ``chmod 600`` to
this file.

To increment your development environments created with ``bdt dev create`` using
pip-installable packages, create a section named ``create`` in the file
``~/.bdtrc`` with the following contents, e.g.:

.. code-block:: ini

   [create]
   pip_extras = ipdb
                bob.buildout
                mr.developer

Then, by default, ``bdt dev create`` will automatically pip install ``ipdb`` and
``mr.developer`` at environment creation time.  You may reset this list to your
liking.

.. include:: links.rst
